===CONVENTIONS===

class names        - CamelCase
class variables    - @@ two "at" signs, lowercase
constants          - CamelCase (classes), Capital_Snake_Case (numbers)
global variables   - $ dollar sign, lowercase
instance variables - @ "at" sign, lowercase
local variables    - snake_case
method names       - snake_case; may end with !, ?, and =
method parameters  - snake_case
module names       - CamelCase

NB: variables cannot start with a digit

===TERMS===

accessor method - read and write methods are defined for symbols via
                  attr_accessor (attr_reader for read-only; attr_writer
                  for write-only).
array - holds a collection of object references which are indexed with
        non-negative integers.
array literal - a set of objects contained between square brackets used
                to create and initialize a new array object.
assignment - an equal sign (=) separates two values; the one on the left
             is made to match the one on the right.
attribute - externally visible facet of an object; can be accessed and 
            manipulated
bang method - ends with ! and modifies its receiver. "dangerous".
block - chunk of code within braces (one line) or between 'do' and 'end' 
        (multiple lines). it comes directly after method invocations and
        their parameters. it takes parameters and denotes local
        variables: |parameter, variable| and is invoked with the keyword
        'yield'.
CamelCase - it begins with an uppercase letter; words are divided by 
            subsequent uppercase letters.
closure - block-referenced variables in the surrounding scope are
          accessible for the life of the block as well as the life of any
          Proc object created by said block
command expression - a string delimited by backquotes or %x is executed
                     as a command by the user's OS.
container - a class, such as a hash or an array, that groups items in a
            convenient way
delimiter - specification of a boundary.
double quotes - ruby does more work; it looks for substitutions which
                begin with backslashes and accounts for interpolation.
                always use them unless you want backslashes, etc., to
                show up in the output.
encoding - output format of any given string; default is US-ASCII.
Enumerable - a special module that implements external iterators as 
             objects.
escape - use of a backslash to break the convention of context, adding
         meaning to "normal" characters (letters and digits), and
         removing meaning from special characters (?, !, [, ], /, etc.)
expression - any statement that returns a value.
hash - holds a collection of object references which are indexed by any
       object: strings, symbols, regular expressions, etc.
hash literal - a set of objects contained between braces with two
               objects for every entry: one is the key, and the other is
               the value. keys must be unique and go to the left. the
               value can be anything: a string, array, hash, etc.
inheritance - a subclass ('child') is created as a refinement or
              specialization of the superclass ('parent'). all
              capabilities of the parent class (methods, instance
              variables, etc.) are available to the child.
interpolation - using #{stuff} to express functional code in the output.
                it can be as simple as a variable, but methods can be
                run within it as well, as in #{name.capitalize}
iterator - method that invokes a block of code repeatedly, such as
           returning successive elements from an array or hash, or
           a series of derived values
key - used to access an object containing multiple elements. for an
      array, it must be an integer. for a hash, it can be anything.
key value - in a hash, the reference used to store and retrieve an
            object
key value pair - an object and its referent key
mixin - a module's functionality can be included in a class via keyword
        'include'. class hierarchies are not impacted in any way
module - a grouping of methods, classes, and/or constants. creates a
         namespace and supports mixins.
namespace - constants and methods can operate without interference from
            objects with the same name from elsewhere in the program
            (NB: this doesn't apply to instance variables)
nil - a special object representing nothing.
operator -  a special character or keyword used to manipulate data.
parameter - an argument passed to a method or block.
pattern - defined within a regular expression for matching and further
          action.
precedence - the level at which boolean operators are ordered and
             applied.
private method - available only within the context of the current
                 object (self); cannot be accessed by any other object
                 or receiver.
proc - an object rendered from a block of code
protected method - available only to objects within the defining class
                   and its subclasses (within the family). used when
                   objects must access the internal states of other
                   objects within the same class
public method - default, available to all users.
receiver - an object upon which a method is executed; self is default.
regular expression -  a pattern to be matched with any relevant string.
regular expression literal - a pattern written between two forward
                             slashes.
scope - boundary of accessibility of any given variable.
self - a reference to the current object.
single quotes - print text as-is.
snake_case - it begins with a lowercase letter; words are divided by
             underscores.
splat argument - use of an asterisk (*) to capture multiple arguments
                 within a single parameter.
statement modifier - use of keywords to add an enabling or disabling
                     condition to a line of code (if, unless, while,
                     etc.)
string - a sequence of characters
string literal - a sequence of characters between delimiters (single or
                 double quotation marks).
Struct - a data structure containing a set of attributes.
symbols - unique constant names without a need to be predeclared.
          begin with a colon. frequently used as hash keys.
variable - holds a dynamic reference to an object
virtual attribute - information which is not specifically mapped to a
                    single instance variable, but rather synthesized
                    from two or more. defined via a method ending in an
                    equal sign (=)